# 2. Displaying A Repository's Commits
- QUIZ QUESTION: After you’ve cloned the blog project repository, navigate to the project’s directory using the command line. Once you’re located inside the blog project, what is the very first thing you should do in a Git repository?
  1. run the `git status` command
  2. open the project in a code editor
  3. decide what new feature to work on
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 1
  Hint: You should always run the git status command. Especially when returning to a project after a period of time.
  ```

## Git Status & Opening The Project
- As `git status` tells us that there's `nothing to commit, working tree clean`. That means we're good to go ahead and check out the project!
- Open the project in your favorite code editor. If you haven't yet, take a minute or two to look at the project – look over the `CSS` and the` JavaScript` files, but look particularly at the `HTML` file.
- QUIZ QUESTION
In the index.html file, take a look at the `<h1>Expedition</h1>` heading around `line 15`. Based on what you can see here when was that heading added?
  1. It was added on a Tuesday. Yeah, a Tuesday
  2. 3 weeks ago
  3. ¯\(ツ)/¯ I can't tell that by looking at the code
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 3
  Hint: There's no way to tell just by looking at the code.
  ```
- QUIZ QUESTION
Ok, so we're not quite sure when the heading was added. How about an easier question - who added this heading? Again, what can you tell from just looking at the code?
  1. Richard did!
  2. No clue
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 2
  Hint: You can guess and assume who added the heading, but you can't know for sure just by looking at the code.
  ```

## The Git Log Command
- Finding the answers to these questions is exactly what `git log` can do for us! Go ahead and run the
```
git log
```
...command in the terminal

## Navigating The Log
- To scroll `down`, press
  - `j` or `↓` to move down one line at a time
  - `d` to move by half the page screen
  - `f` to move by a whole page screen
- To scroll `up`, press
  - `k` or `↑` to move up one line at a time
  - `u` to move by half the page screen
  - `b` to move by a whole page screen
- To `quit` out of the log (returns to the regular command prompt) press `q`

- `Git` records a ton of information when a `commit` is made. See if you can use `git log` to answer the following questions!

- QUIZ QUESTION: Use `git log` to find the commit that has a `SHA` that starts with `f9720a`. Who made the commit?
  1. James Parkes
  2. Richard Kalehoff
  3. Colt Steele
  4. Julia Van Cleve
  5. Godzilla McFiddlebrunches
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 2
  ```
- What Is The Message? Use `git log` to find the commit with the `SHA` that starts with `8aa6668`. What is the message for that commit?
```
Convert social links from text to images
```
- QUIZ QUESTION: Use `git log` to find the `commit` with the `SHA` that starts with `f9720a9`. When was that `commit` made?
  1. Mon Dec 5 10:25:22 2016
  2. Mon Dec 5 10:11:51 2016
  3. Sat Dec 3 16:09:00 2016
  4. Fri Dec 2 16:58:27 2016
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 2
  ```
- What Is The `SHA`? Use `git log` to find the `commit` that has the message `Set article timestamp color`. Which commit belongs to that `SHA`? Provide the first 7 characters of the SHA.
```
5de135a
```

## Recap
- The `git log` command is used to display all of the commits of a repository.
- By default, this command displays:
  - the `SHA`
  - the author
  - the date
  - the message
...of every commit in the repository. I stress the "By default" part of what `Git` displays because the `git log` command can display a lot more information than just this.
- `Git` uses the command line pager, `Less`, to page through all of the information. The important keys for Less are:
  - to scroll down by a line, use `j` or `↓`
  - to scroll up by a line, use `k` or `↑`
  - to scroll down by a page, use the `spacebar` or the Page Down button
  - to scroll up by a page, use `b` or the Page Up button
  - to quit, use `q`