# 3. Changing How Git Log Displays Information
- Let's think about some of these questions:
  - The `SHA` - `git log` will display the complete `SHA` for every single `commit`. Each `SHA` is unique, so we don't really need to see the entire `SHA`. We could get by perfectly fine with knowing just the first 6-8 characters. Wouldn't it be great if we could save some space and show just the first 5 or so characters of the `SHA`?
  - The author - the `git log` output displays the `commit author` for every single `commit`! It could be different for other repositories that have multiple people collaborating together, but for this one, there's only one person making all of the commits, so the commit author will be identical for all of them. Do we need to see the author for each one? What if we wanted to hide that information?
  - The date - By default, `git log` will display the `date` for each commit. But do we really care about the commit's date? Knowing the date might be important occasionally, but typically knowing the date isn't vitally important and can be ignored in a lot of cases. Is there a way we could hide that to save space?
  - The `commit message` - this is one of the most important parts of a `commit message`...we usually always want to see this
- We can use a `flag` to not waste a lot of space and make the output smaller
  - TIP: A `flag` is used to alter how a program functions. For example, the `ls` command will list all of the files in the current directory. The `ls` command has a `-l` flag (i.e. `ls -l`) that runs the same `ls` command but alters how it works; it now displays the information in the long format (the `-l` for long).
  - `Flags` can be used to alter how a program functions and/or what is displayed.

## git log --oneline
- The `git log` command has a `flag` that can be used to alter how it displays the repository's information. That flag is `--oneline`:
```
git log --oneline
```
- QUIZ QUESTION: You're deep in the weeds of the `git log --oneline` command and want to get out of the `git log --oneline` output and return to the regular command prompt. What do you press on the keyboard to return to the regular command prompt?
  - The `esc` key
  - The `q` key
  - The `ctrl` + `c` keys
  - The `ctrl` + `d` keys
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 2
  Hint: the q key gets out of the git log view. We're still using git log but are just passing a flag to change how the information is displayed. So the q key still works and returns the terminal to the command prompt.
  ```
- When typing command lines, `spelling` is important, so make sure you write everything correctly. Also, if you do make spelling mistakes, `Git` will try to provide you with some feedback, so read it carefully. When seeing error messages, `unfound` or `unrecognized arguments` often mean a simple spelling mistake.

## Recap
- The `--oneline` flag is used to alter how `git log` displays information:
- The command `git log --oneline`
  - Lists one commit per line
  - Shows the first 7 characters of the commit's SHA
  - Shows the commit's message