# 5. Viewing File Changes
- Being able to see `the exact changes` that were made to a file is incredibly important!
## git log -p
- The `git log` command has a `flag` that can be used to display the actual changes made to a file. The `flag` is `--patch` which can be shortened to just `-p`:
```
git log -p
```

## Annotated git log -p Output
- 🔵 - the `file` that is being displayed
- 🔶 - the `hash` of the `first version` of the file and the `hash` of the `second version` of the `file`
not usually important, so it's safe to ignore
- ❤️ - the `old version` and `current version` of the `file`
- 🔍 - the `lines` where the `file` is added and how many `lines` there are
  - `-15,83` indicates that the `old version` (represented by the `-`) started at `line 15` and that the file had `83 lines`
  - `+15,85` indicates that the `current version` (represented by the `+`) starts at `line 15` and that there are now `85 lines`...these `85 lines` are shown in the patch below
- ✏️ - the `actual changes` made in the `commit`
  - `lines` that are `red` and start with a minus (`-`) were in the `original version` of the file but have been removed by the `commit`
  - `lines` that are `green` and start with a plus (`+`) are `new lines` that have been added in the `commit`

## Further Research
- [Generating patches with -p](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff#_generating_patches_with_p) from the Git docs

- QUIZ QUESTION: Using what you've learned so far about `git log`'s `-p` flag, look at the commit with the SHA `50d835d`. What line number in `app.css` should you start looking at to see what has been changed? Tip - don't forget that while looking at the `git log` output, the `d` key will scroll _down_ by half a page while the `u` key will scroll _up_ half a page.
  1. line 63
  2. line 89
  3. line 127
  4. line 155
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 3
  ```
- QUIZ QUESTION: Using `git log` and any of its `flags`, what code was added in by commit `4a60beb`?
  1. color: #352d2d;
  2. color: #250808;
  3. color: #333333;
  4. color: #2e3d49;
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 4
  ```
- QUIZ QUESTION: `git log --stat` and `git log -p` are both really helpful commands. Wouldn't it be great if we could have both of their output at the same time? Hmmm… What happens when `git log -p --stat` is run?
  1. It displays only the patch information
  2. It displays only the stats
  3. It displays both with the patch info above the stats info
  4. It displays both with the stats info above the patch info
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 4
  Hint: you can combine flags! git log -p --stat will display the stats info above the patch info. Actually, the order doesn't matter; git log --stat -p will also show the stats info above the patch info.
  ```
- QUIZ QUESTION: What does the `-w` flag do to the patch information? For help, check [this Git docs page](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff).
  1. It displays non-whitespace characters in blinking text
  2. It displays non-whitespace changes in bold
  3. It ignores whitespace changes
  4. It shows a separate patch area with just new/removed content
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 3
  Hint: git log -p -w will show the patch information, but will not highlight lines where only whitespace changes have occurred.
  ```
## Recap
- The `-p` flag (which is the same as the `--patch` flag) is used to alter how `git log` displays information
- The command `git log -p` adds the following to the default output:
  - Displays the files that have been modified
  - Displays the location of the lines that have been added/removed
  - Displays the actual changes that have been made