# 2. Create A Repo From Scratch
To create a new repository with Git, we'll use
```
git init
```
The `init` subcommand is short for `initialize`, which is helpful because it's the command that will do all of the initial setup of a `repository`.
- Required Commands
  - `ls` - used to list files and directories
  - `mkdir` - used to create a new directory
  - `cd` - used to change directories
  - `rm` - used to remove files and directories
- We'll also be using the idea of the current working directory, the directory that your shell is "looking at" right now. Using `cd` changes your working directory, and using `ls` (by itself) lists the files in the working directory. If you lose track of what your shell's working directory is, you can print its name with the `pwd` command (which stands for "print working directory").

## Create Course Directories
- Create a directory called `udacity-git-course`
- Inside that, create another directory called `new-git-project`
- Use the `cd` command to move into the `new-git-project` directory

All these above stuffs can be done by running the command line on the terminal
```
mkdir -p udacity-git-course/new-git-project && cd $_
```
(Before running this command, make sure you `cd` to where you want these files stored. For example, if you want the files stored on your `Desktop`, then make sure you `cd` to the `Desktop` before running the command.)

## Git Init
- After the previous command, you're currently inside `udacity-git-course/new-git-project`. Now run
```
git init
```

- QUIZ QUESTION: Did you run `git init` yet? If not, do it now because you'll need it to answer this quiz!
After running `git init`, the text "Initialized empty Git repository in " followed by a path. should have appeared. The question is, has anything changed with your `command prompt`? If so, what?
  1. Yes - I now see the word "master".
  2. No, it looks exactly the same.
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 1
  ```

## Git Init's Effect
- Running the `git init` command sets up all of the necessary files and directories that `Git` will use to keep track of everything. All of these files are stored in a directory called `.git` (notice the `.` at the beginning - that means it'll be a `hidden directory` on `Mac/Linux`). This `.git` directory is the `repo`! This is where `git` records all of the commits and keeps track of everything!
- WARNING: Don't directly edit any files inside the `.git` directory. This is the heart of the `repository`. If you change file names and/or file content, `git` will probably lose track of the files that you're keeping in the `repo`, and you could lose a lot of work! It's okay to look at those files though, but don't edit or delete them.

## .git Directory Contents
Here's a brief synopsis on each of the items in the `.git` directory:
- `config file` - where all project specific configuration settings are stored. From the [Git Book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Configuration): "`Git` looks for `configuration values` in the `configuration file` in the `Git` directory (`.git/config`) of whatever repository you’re currently using. These values are specific to that single repository." For example, let's say you set that the global configuration for `Git` uses your personal email address. If you want your work email to be used for a specific project rather than your personal email, that change would be added to this file.
- `description file` - this file is only used by the `GitWeb` program, so we can ignore it
- `hooks directory` - this is where we could place client-side or server-side scripts that we can use to hook into `Git`'s different lifecycle events
- `info directory` - contains the global excludes file
- `objects directory` - this directory will store all of the commits we make
- `refs directory` - this directory holds pointers to commits (basically the "branches" and "tags")

Remember, other than the `hooks directory`, you shouldn't mess with pretty much any of the content in here. The `hooks directory` can be used to hook into different parts or events of Git's workflow, but that's a more advanced topic that we won't be getting into in this course.

## Recap
- Use the `git init` command to create a new, empty repository in the current directory.
- Running this command creates a hidden `.git` directory. This `.git` directory is the brain/storage center for the repository. It holds all of the configuration files and directories and is where all of the commits are stored.

## Helpful Links
- [Initializing a Repository in an Existing Directory](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Getting-a-Git-Repository#Initializing-a-Repository-in-an-Existing-Directory)
- [git init docs](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-init)
- [git init Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/setting-up-a-repository)