# 3. Clone An Existing Repo
## Why Clone?
`Cloning` is making an identical copy. The way that `cloning` relates to `Git` is that the command we'll be running on the terminal is `git clone`. You pass a path (usually a `URL`) of the `Git` repository you want to clone to the `git clone` command.
- `Verify Terminal Location`
  - TIP: Now before you clone anything, make sure you are located in the correct directory on the command line. Cloning a project creates a new directory and places the cloned Git repository in it. The problem is that you can't have nested Git repositories. So make sure the terminal's current working directory isn't located in a Git repository. If your current working directory is not in your shell's prompt, type pwd to print the working directory.

## Cloning The Blog Repository
- The command is `git clone` and then you pass the path to the Git repository that you want to clone. The project that we'll be using throughout this course is located at this URL: https://github.com/udacity/course-git-blog-project So using this URL, the full command to clone blog project is:
```
git clone https://github.com/udacity/course-git-blog-project
```

## Git Clone Output Explanation
- Let's look briefly at the output that `git clone` displays.
  - The first line says `Cloning into 'course-git-blog-project'...`. `Git` is creating a `director`y (with the same name of the project we're cloning) and putting the `repository` in it...that's pretty cool!
  - The rest of the output is basically validation - it's counting the `remote repository`'s number of objects, then it compresses and receives them, then it unpacks them.

## Clone Project And Use Different Name
- The command you previously ran in the terminal was:
```
git clone https://github.com/udacity/course-git-blog-project
```
...which created a directory named `course-git-blog-project`.
- What if you want to use a different name instead of the default one? Yes, you could just run the command above and manually rename it in `Finder/Windows Explorer` or use `mv` on the terminal. But that's too many steps for us! Instead, we'd rather `clone` the project and have it use a different name all in one go! But how do we do that?
- QUIZ QUESTION: Why don't you check out [the documentation for git clone](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Getting-a-Git-Repository#Cloning-an-Existing-Repository) and pick the correct way to do it from the options below. The command should clone the blog project repo and store it in a directory named `blog-project`.
  - git clone-new-dir https://github.com/udacity/course-git-blog-project blog-project
  - git clone https://github.com/udacity/course-git-blog-project --out blog-project
  - git clone https://github.com/udacity/course-git-blog-project --rename blog-project
  - git clone https://github.com/udacity/course-git-blog-project blog-project
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 4
  ```
- `Not In A Git Repository?` 
  - WARNING: Here's a very important step that often gets missed when you first start working with `Git`. When the `git clone` command is used to clone a repository, it creates a new directory for the repository...you already know this. But, it doesn't change your shell's `working directory`. It created the new `repo` inside the current working directory, which means that the current working directory is still outside of this new Git repo! Make sure you cd into the new repository.
  - Remember to use the Terminal's command prompt as an aid - if you're in a directory that is a `Git repository`, the command prompt will include a name in parentheses.

## Look At The Project
- Open up the `index.html` file in your favorite browser.

## Recap
- The `git clone` command is used to create an identical copy of an existing repository.
```
git clone <path-to-repository-to-clone>
```
- This command:
  - Takes the path to an existing repository
  - By default will create a directory with the same name as the repository that's being cloned
  - Can be given a second argument that will be used as the name of the directory
  - Will create the new repository inside of the current working directory

## Helpful Links
- [Cloning an Existing Repository](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Getting-a-Git-Repository#Cloning-an-Existing-Repository)
- [git clone docs](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone)
- [git clone Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/setting-up-a-repository)

## Status Update
- At this point, we have two Git repositories:
  - The empty one that we created with the `git init` command
  - The one we cloned with the `git clone` command
- How can we find any information about these repositories? `Git`'s controlling them, but how can we find out what `Git` knows about our repos? To figure out what's going on with a repository, we use the `git status` command.