# 2. Git Add
- We'll be making our `commits` to the `new-git-project` Git repository in this chapter.
- On the `Terminal`, make sure you `cd` into the `new-git-project` directory. If you don't have a `new-git-project` directory, create it now. Once you're inside the directory, run the `git init` command. If you've already run `git init` before it's ok – running `git init` multiple times doesn't cause any problems since it just re-initializes the Git directory.

## Status Status Status
- First thing first, run `git status`
- You should have it as your goal to run the `git status` command both _before_ and _after_ any other Git command.

## Git Status Output Review
- This is the output
```
On branch main

No commits yet

nothing to commit (create/copy files and use "git add" to track)
```
- Notice that last line – `nothing to commit (create/copy files and use "git add" to track)`. See how it's recommending the `git add` command? The `git status` output will give you advice or hints as to what you should do next.

## Create An HTML File
- First, create a file named `index.html`, and fill it with some starter code
```
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>Blog Project</title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <meta name="description" content="">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/app.css">
</head>
<body>

    <script src="js/app.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```
- Now, create the `css` directory and put the `app.css` in it. You can leave the `app.css` file empty for now
- Then, create the `js` directory and put the `app.js` file in it. You can leave these `app.js` file empty for now

## Quick Git Status Check
- We just made a number of changes to the repository by adding files and content. It's time to do a quick check-in with Git:
```
git status
```

## Big Picture Review
- We haven't done anything specific with `Git` just yet, but it's watching this directory (since it's a `Git` project), and it knows that we've created a couple of new files. What's also pretty neat about the output of the `git status` command is that it's telling us that the files are `untracked` by `Git`.
- Here're what's going on and what we're about to do:
  - We have some `new files` that we want `Git` to start tracking
  - For `Git` to track a file, it needs to be committed to the `repository`
  - For a `file` to be `committed`, it needs to be in the `Staging Index`
  - The `git add` command is used to `move files` from the `Working Directory` to the `Staging Index`
  - There are currently three, untracked files in the `Working Directory`
    - `index.html`
    - `app.css` in the `css` directory
    - `app.js` in the js directory
- The first step to getting any files `committed` to the `repository` is to `add` them from the `Working Directory` to the `Staging Index`. We will be using the `git add` command to move all three of these files to the `Staging Index`.

## Staging Files
- Run the following command on the `Terminal` which uses `git add` to add `index.html` to the `Staging Index`:
```
git add index.html
```
  - Note - we are only adding the `index.html` file now.
- Running the `git add` command produces no output (as long as there wasn't an error). To have `Git` tell us what it did and has happened to the `index.html` file, use the `git status` command.

## Changes To Be Committed
- There's now a new section in the output of `git status` - the `Changes to be committed` area! This new `Changes to be committed` section displays files that are in the `Staging Area`! Right now it only displays the `index.html` file, so this file is the only item on the `Staging Index`. To continue this train of thought, if we made a `commit` right now, only the `index.html` file would be committed.
  - TIP: Did you also notice the helpful text that's located just beneath `Changes to be committed`? It says (use `git rm --cached <file>...` to unstage) This is a hint of what you should do if you accidentally ran `git add` and gave it the wrong file.
  - As a side note, `git rm --cached` is not like the shell's `rm` command. `git rm --cached` will not destroy any of your work; it just `removes` it from the `Staging Index`.
  - Also, this used the word `unstage`. The act of moving a file from the `Working Directory` to the `Staging Index` is called `staging`. If a file has been moved, then it has been `staged`. Moving a file from the `Staging Index` back to the `Working Directory` will `unstage` the file. If you read documentation that says `stage the following files` that means you should use the `git add` command.

## Stage Remaining Files
- The `index.html` file has been `staged`. Let's `stage` the other two files. Now we could run the following:
```
git add css/app.css js/app.js
```
...but that's a lot of extra typing. We could use a special command line character to help:

## The Period .
- The period (`.`) refers to the `current directory` and can be used as a shortcut to refer to `all files` and directories (including all `nested` files and directories!).
  ```
  git add css/app.css js/app.js
  ```
  would become
  ```
  git add .
  ```
- The only thing to be careful of is that you might accidentally include more files than you meant to. Right now we want both `css/app.css` and `js/app.js` to be `staged`, so running this command is fine right now. But let's say you added some images to an img directory but didn't want to stage them just yet. Running `git add .` will stage them. If you do stage files that you didn't mean to, remember that `git status` will tell you the command to use to `unstage` files.


## Stage The Remaining Files
- Let's use the shortcut to stage the remaining files:
```
git add .
```
- And then a quick 
```
git status
```

## Recap
- The `git add` command is used to move files from the `Working Directory` to the `Staging Index`.
- The command ```git add <file1> <file2> … <fileN>```
  - Takes a space-separated list of file names
  - Alternatively, the period `.` can be used in place of a list of files to tell `Git` to add the current directory (and all nested files)