# 3. Git Commit
## One Last Git Status Check
- If you haven't added any new files to the `Working Directory` or modified any of the existing files, nothing will have changed, but to make sure, let's run a quick `git status` again right before we make the commit just to make absolutely sure the project is how we left it.

## Make A Commit
- To make a `commit` in `Git` you use the `git commit` command, but don't run it just yet. Running this command will open the code editor that you configured way back in the first lesson. If you haven't run this command yet:
```
git config --global core.editor <your-editor's-config-went-here>
```
...go back to the `Git configuration` step and configure `Git` to use your chosen editor.
- If you didn't do this step and you already ran `git commit`, then `Git` probably defaulted to using the `Vim` editor. `Vim` is a popular editor for people who have been using `Unix` or `Linux` systems forever, but it's not the friendliest for new users. It's definitely not in the scope of this course. Check out [this Stack Overflow post on how to get out of Vim](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11828270/how-to-exit-the-vim-editor) and return to the regular command prompt.
- If you _did_ configure your editor, then go ahead and make a commit using
```
git commit
```
- Remember, your editor should pop open

## Terminal Hangs
- If you switch back to the `Terminal` for a quick second, you'll see that the Terminal is chillin' out just waiting for you to finish with the code editor that popped up. You don't need to worry about this, though. Once we add the necessary content to the code editor and finally close the code editor window, the Terminal will unfreeze and return to normal.

## Code Editor Commit Message Explanation
- Switch back to the code editor, you'll see
```
# Please enter the commit message for your changes. Lines starting
# with '#' will be ignored, and an empty message aborts the commit.
# On branch master
#
# Initial commit
#
# Changes to be committed:
#    new file:   css/app.css
#    new file:   index.html
#    new file:   js/app.js
#
```
- The first paragraph is telling us exactly what we need to do - we need to supply a `message` for this `commit`. Also, any line that begins with the `#` character will be ignored. Farther down it says that this will be the `initial commit`. Lastly, it's giving us a list of the `files` that will be committed.
- Since this is the `very first commit` of the `repository`, we'll use the `commit message "Initial commit"`. The text `Initial commit` isn't special, but it's the de facto commit message for the very first commit. If you want to use something else, feel free!
- Type out your `commit message` on the `first line` of the code editor

## Finish Committing
- Now save the file and `close the editor window` (closing just the pane/tab isn't enough, you need to close the code editor window that the `git commit` command opened).

## First Commit, Congrats!
-  You just add the files you want to have committed to the `Staging Area`, and then you run `git commit`

### Bypass The Editor With The -m Flag
- TIP: If the commit message you're writing is short and you don't want to wait for your code editor to open up to type it out, you can pass your message directly on the command line with the `-m` flag:
```
git commit -m "Initial commit"
```
- In the example above, the text `Initial commit` is used as the commit message. Be aware that you can't provide a description for the commit, only the message part.

## 2nd Commit - Add Changes
- Add this just inside the `body` tag in `index.html`:
```
<header>
    <h1>Expedition</h1>
</header>
```
- Then run `git status`
  - TIP: If you run `git status` but don't see that `index.html` has changed, make sure to save the file.

## Multipurpose Git Add
- So we've modified our file. `Git` sees that it's been modified. Now remember, to make a commit, the file or files we want committed need to be on the `Staging Index` using `git add`.
- Even though we used `git add` to add newly created files to the `Staging Index`, we use the same command to move modified files to the `Staging Index`.
- Use the `git add` command to move the file over to the `Staging Index`, now. Verify that it's there with `git status`.

## Second Commit
- Now that we have a file with changes we can commit, let's make our `second commit`! Use the `git commit` command to make a commit. Use the commit message `Add header to blog`.
- QUIZ QUESTION: Let's say you have a personal blog and want to change the color of the article headings. You
  - edit the HTML files to give each heading a class
  - edit the CSS file to add the new class and give it a color
  - you save all files
  - you run `git commit` on the terminal

  Will your code editor open up to let you type out the commit message?
  1. Yes
  2. No
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 2
  Hint: Running git commit will instead display the output of git status and "no changes added to commit". It did this because you did not use git add to move the files from the Working Directory to the Staging Index.
  ```

## What To Include In A Commit
- How do you know `what you should include in a commit` and `when/how often you should make commits`?
- The goal is that each `commit` has a `single focus`. Each `commit` should record a `single-unit` change. Now this can be a bit subjective (which is totally fine), but each `commit` should make a change to `just one` aspect of the project. 
  - Now this isn't limiting the number of lines of code that are added/removed or the number of files that are added/removed/modified.
- Conversely, a `commit` shouldn't include `unrelated changes`. Work on one change first, commit that, and then change the second one. 
  - That way, if it turns out that one change had a bug and you have to undo it, you don't have to undo the other change too.
- You can think about what should be in a `commit` by asking "What if all changes introduced in this commit were erased?". If a commit were erased, it should only remove one thing.

## Recap
- The `git commit` command takes files from the `Staging Index` and saves them in the repository. It will open the `code editor` that is specified in your configuration (check out the Git configuration step from the first lesson to configure your editor)
- Inside the code editor:
  - a commit message must be supplied
  - lines that start with a `#` are comments and will not be recorded
  - save the file after adding a commit message
  - close the editor to make the commit
- Then, use `git log` to review the `commit` you just made!

## Further Research
- [Associating text editors with Git](https://help.github.com/articles/associating-text-editors-with-git/) from GitHub Help Docs
- [Getting Started - First-Time Git Setup](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-First-Time-Git-Setup) from Git book