# 6. Having Git Ignore Files
## Why Should Files Be Ignored
- Instead of adding the files `one by one`, we could use the period (`.`) to indicate the `current directory` and all `subdirectories`.

### The Problem
- If you add a file to the directory where your project is stored but don't want it added to the repository, `Git` will see this new file. So if you run `git status` it'll show up in the list of files.
- The potential problem with having this file in your project is that, because `git add .` adds all files, this new file might get accidentally committed to the repository.

## Git Ignore
- If you want to keep a file in your project's directory structure but make sure it isn't accidentally committed to the project, you can use the specially named file, `.gitignore` (note the `dot` at the front, it's important!).
  - Add this file to your project in the same directory that the hidden `.git` directory is located.
  ```
  touch .gitignore
  ```
  - Don't forget to double check
  ```
  git status
  ```
- All you have to do is list the names of files that you want `Git` to ignore (not track) and it will ignore them.
  - Let's try creating the `project.docx`. Inside your `new-git-project` directory, run
  ```
  touch project.docx
  ```
  - Don't forget to double check
  ```
  git status
  ```
  - Add the following line inside the `.gitignore` file:
  ```
  project.docx
  ```
- Now run `git status` and check its output again. You should only see `.gitignore` in red.
  - `Git` knows to look at the contents of a file with the name `.gitignore`. Since it saw `project.docx` in it, it ignored that file and doesn't show it in the output of `git status`.

## Globbing Crash Course
- Let's say that you add 50 images to your project, but want `Git` to ignore all of them. Fortunately, you don't need to list `each and every` filename in the `.gitignore`. You can use `globbing` instead.
- `Globbing` lets you use special characters to match `patterns/characters`. In the `.gitignore file`, you can use the following:
  - blank lines can be used for spacing
  - `#` - marks line as a comment
  - `*` - matches 0 or more characters
  - `?` - matches 1 character
  - `[abc]` - matches a, b, _or_ c
  - `**` - matches nested directories - `a/**/z` matches
    - a/z
    - a/b/z
    - a/b/c/z
- If all of the 50 images are JPEG images in the `samples` folder, we could add the following line to `.gitignore` to have `Git` ignore all 50 images.
```
samples/*.jpg
```

- QUIZ QUESTION: Which of the following files will be ignored if `*.png` is entered into the `.gitignore` file?
  1. ocean.jpg
  2. trees.png
  3. png-format.pdf
  4. not-a-png.jpeg
  5. bg-pattern.png
  6. logo.gif
  7. LOUDFILE.PNG
  ```
  Correct Answer: Options 2, 5, and 7
  Hint: Adding *.png to the `.gitignore` file will cause Git to ignore all PNG images.
  ```
- QUIZ QUESTION: If you ask `Git` to ignore `be?rs`, which of the following filenames will be ignored?
  1. bears
  2. beavers
  3. BeArS
  4. beers
  5. boars
  ```
  Correct Answer: Options 1 and 4
  ```

## Recap
- The `.gitignore` file is used to tell `Git` about the files that `Git` should not track. This file should be placed in the `same directory` that the `.git` directory is in.

## Further Research
- [Ignoring files](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Recording-Changes-to-the-Repository#Ignoring-Files) from the Git Book
- [gitignore](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore#_pattern_format) from the Git Docs
- [Ignoring files](https://help.github.com/articles/ignoring-files/) from the GitHub Docs
- [gitignore.io](https://www.gitignore.io/)