# 3. Branching
- When a `commit` is made in the `repo`, it's added to the `branch` and the `branch pointer` moves to point to it.
- While a `tag` is a permanent pointer to a `commit` and it doesn't move, a `branch` does move when a new `commit` is added.
- The `active branch` is the the `branch` that the `head pointer` points to. We can switch between different `branches` using the `git checkout` command, and whatever `branch` we have switched to becomes `active`.
- Not only can we have as many `branches` as we want, but we can choose where it starts from.
- The `code editor` only shows all the codes and files that appear in your `current active branch` that you have switched to.

## The git branch command
- The `git branch` command is used to interact with `Git`'s branches
- It can be used to:
  - List all branch names in the repository
  - Create new branches
  - Delete branches
- If we type out just `git branch` it will list out all the `branches` in a `repository`

## Create A Branch
- To create a `branch`, all you have to do is use `git branch` and provide it the `name` of the branch you want it to create.
```
git branch <branch name>
```
- So if you want a branch called `sidebar`, you'd run this command:
```
git branch sidebar
```

- QUIZ QUESTION: Remember that there are a number of `branches` in the `repository`, but that the command prompt displays the current branch. Now that we just created a new `sidebar` branch, does the command prompt display sidebar or master?
  1. sidebar
  2. master
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 2
  Hint: Even though you created the sidebar branch, it's not the current branch just yet. We need to switch to it.
  ```

## The git checkout Command
- Remember that when a `commit` is made that it will be added to the `current branch`. So even though we created the new `sidebar`, no new `commits` will be added to it since we haven't `switched` to it, yet. If we made a `commit` right now, that `commit` would be added to the `master` branch, not the `sidebar` branch. 
- To switch between `branches`, we need to use `Git`'s `checkout command`.
```
git checkout <branch name>
```
- So if you want to switch to the `sidebar` branch, you'd run this command:
```
git checkout sidebar
```
- It's important to understand how this command works. Running this command will:
  - Remove all files and directories from the `Working Directory` that `Git` is tracking
    - (files that `Git` tracks are stored in the `repository`, so nothing is lost)
  - Go into the `repository` and pull out all of the files and directories of the `commit` that the `branch` points to
- So this will `remove` all of the files that are referenced by `commits in the master branch`. It will replace them with the files that are referenced by the `commits in the sidebar branch`. This is very important to understand, so go back and read these last two sentences.

## Branches In The Log
- The `branch` information in the command prompt is helpful, but the clearest way to see it is by looking at the output of `git log`. But just like we had to use the `--decorate` flag to display `Git tags`, we need it to display branches.
```
git log --oneline --decorate
```
  - However, if you're using `Git 2.13` or later, you don't need to include the `--decorate` flag
- After running the above command, notice how the special `HEAD` indicator we saw earlier has an arrow pointing to the `sidebar` branch. It's pointing to `sidebar` because the `sidebar` branch is the `current branch`, and any `commits` made right now will be added to the `sidebar branch`.

## The Active Branch
- The fastest way to determine the `active branch` is to look at the output of the `git branch` command. An asterisk will appear next to the name of the `active branch`.

- QUIZ QUESTION: From what you know about both the `git branch` and `git tag` commands, what do you think the following command will do?
```
git branch alt-sidebar-loc 42a69f
```
  1. Will create a branch `alt` at the same commit as the `master` branch
  2. Will create the 3 branches `alt`, `sidebar`, `loc`
  3. Will move the `master` branch to the commit with `SHA` `42a69f`
  4. Will create the `alt-sidebar-loc` branch and have it point to the commit with `SHA` `42a69f`
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 4
  ```
- Which Branch Is Active? Given the following output from `git branch`:
```
$ git branch
  barbara
* footer-fix
  master
  richard
  sidebar
  social-icons
```
Which branch is the active branch?
  ```
  Correct Answer: footer-fix
  Hint: Because the asterisk is next to footer-fix, that means it's the active branch.
  ```

## Delete A Branch
- A `branch` is used to do development or make a fix to the project that won't affect the project (since the changes are made on a branch). Once you make the change on the `branch`, you can combine that `branch` into the `master branch` (this `combining of branches` is called `merging`).
  - TIP: sometimes, the `default branch` can be `main`, not always `master`
- Now after a `branch`'s changes have been `merged`, you probably won't need the `branch` anymore. If you want to `delete` the branch, you'd include the `-d` flag after the `git branch` command like so
```
git branch -d <branch name>
```
- Note that you can't delete a `branch` that you're currently on. So to delete a `branch`, you'd have to switch to either the `master` branch or create and switch to a `new branch`.
- `Git` won't let you delete a `branch` if it has `commits` on it that aren't on any other `branch` (meaning the commits are unique to the branch that's about to be deleted). 
  - If you created the `sidebar branch`, added `commits` to it, and then tried to delete it with the `git branch -d sidebar` command, `Git` wouldn't let you delete the branch because you can't delete a branch that you're currently on. If you switched to the `master branch` and tried to delete the `sidebar branch`, `Git` also wouldn't let you do that because those new `commits` on the `sidebar branch` would be lost! To `force deletion`, you need to use a `capital D` flag - `git branch -D sidebar`.

## Recap
- The `git branch` command is used to manage branches in `Git`:
```
# to list all branches
git branch

# to create a new branch
git branch <branch name>

# to delete a branch
git branch -d <branch name>
```
- The `git branch` command is used to:
  - List out local branches
  - Create new branches
  - Remove branches


## Further Research
- [Git Branching - Basic Branching and Merging](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging) from the Git Docs
- [Learn Git Branching](http://learngitbranching.js.org/)
- [Git Branching Tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/using-branches) from the Atlassian Blog