# 4. Branching Effectively
- We're going to be working in the `new-git-project` project. The project has the following files:
  - `index.html`
  - `css/app.css` (empty)
  - `js/app.js` (empty)
- The `CSS` and `JavaScript` files are empty. Make sure the index file has the following content:
```
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>Blog Project</title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
    <meta name="description" content="">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/app.css">
</head>
<body>

    <header>
        <h1>Expedition</h1>
    </header>

    <div class="container">
        <main>

        </main>
    </div>

    <footer>
        Made with ♥ @ Udacity
    </footer>
    <script src="js/app.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

## The Game Plan
- Right now we have all of our code on the `master branch` (which is the `default branch`). We're about to work with branches, by:
  - Adding content to them
  - Creating new branches
  - Switching back and forth between them
- Let's use branches to make the following changes:
  1. On the `master branch` - add a default color to the page
  2. Create a `sidebar branch` - create a sidebar for the page
  3. On the `master branch` - change the heading of the page
  4. On the `sidebar branch` - add more content to the sidebar
  5. Create a `footer branch` - add social links to the footer

- QUIZ QUESTION: Pop quiz time! How do you have `Git` show you the changes you've saved, but not yet committed?
  1. ```
     git show --diff
     ```
  2. ```
     git log -p
     ```
  3. ```
     git diff
     ```
  4. ```
     git log --stat
     ```
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 3
  Hint: The `git diff` command will show you the changes that have not yet been committed.
  ```

- 💡 Switch and Create Branch In One Command💡
  The way we currently work with `branches` is to create a `branch` with the `git branch` command and then `switch` to that newly created `branch` with the `git checkout` command.
  But the `git checkout` command can actually create a new branch, too. If you provide the `-b` flag, you can create a `branch` and `switch` to it all in one command.
  ```
  git checkout -b <new branch name>
  ```

## See All Branches At Once
- Now we have made tons of changes in different `branches`, but we can't see other `branches` in the `git log` output unless we switch to a `branch`.
- To _see all_ `branches` at once in the `git log` output, we'll use the new `--graph` and `--all` flags:
```
git log --oneline --decorate --graph --all
```
- The `--graph` flag adds the bullets and lines to the leftmost part of the output. This shows the actual _branching_ that's happening. The `--all` flag is what displays _all_ of the branches in the repository.

## Recap
- We've made all the changes, but currently, they are all on their own, separate `branches`. Let's have `Git` combine these changes together. Combining branches together is called `merging`.