# 5. Merging
- Remember that the purpose of a `topic branch` is that it lets you make changes that do not affect the `master branch`. Once you make changes on the `topic branch`, you can either decide that you don't like the changes on the `branch` and you can just delete that `branch`, or you can decide that you want to keep the changes on the topic branch and combine those changes in with those on another branch.
- Combining branches together is called `merging`.
- `Git` can automatically `merge` the changes on different `branches` together. You can make small or extensive changes on `branches`, and then just use `Git` to combine those changes together.
- Two main types of `merges` in `Git`, a `regular merge` and a `Fast-forward merge`.

### Know The Branch ⚠️
- It's very important to know which `branch` you're on when you're about to merge `branches` together. Remember that _making a merge makes a commit_.
- If you make a `merge` on the wrong branch, use this command to `undo the merge`:
  ```
  git reset --hard HEAD^
  ```
  (Make sure to include the `^` character! It's a known as a `Relative Commit Reference` and indicates `the parent commit`.)

## The Merge Command
- The `git merge` command is used to combine `Git branches`:
```
git merge <name-of-branch-to-merge-in>
```
- When a `merge` happens, `Git` will:
  - Look at the `branches` that it's going to merge
  - Look back along the `branch`'s history to find a single commit that both `branches` have in their commit history
  - Combine the lines of code that were changed on the separate `branches` together
  - Makes a `commit` to record the `merge`

### Fast-forward Merge
- When we `merge`, we're merging `some other branch` into the `current (checked-out) branch`. We're not merging two branches into a new branch. We're not merging the current branch into the other branch.
- One of the easiest `merges` to do is a `Fast-forward merge`.
- A `Fast-forward merge` will just move the `currently checked out branch` forward until it points to the same `commit` that the `other branch` is pointing to.
- To merge in `other branch` to the `current branch`, run:
```
git merge <name-of-branch-to-merge-in>
```
- Try checking out the `master branch` of the `new-git-project` project. Make sure that the output of `git status` includes `working directory clean`. Now, try merging in the `footer` branch by running
```
git merge footer
```

- QUIZ QUESTION: Take a look at the `repository`, again, now that you've merged the two branches together. Do the `master` branch and the `footer` branch point to the same commit?
  1. Yes
  2. No
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option `
  ```

### Regular Merge
- Another kind of `merge` is where two _divergent_ `branches` are combined. You'll be surprised that to `merge` in a divergent `branch` is actually no different!
- We use the same command
```
git merge <name-of-branch-to-merge-in>
```
- Now, we're still at the `master branch`, we can try merging in the `sidebar branch` by running
```
git merge sidebar
```
- Because this combines two `divergent branches`, a `commit` is going to be made. And when a `commit` is made, a `commit message` needs to be supplied. Since this is a `merge commit`, a `default message` is already supplied. You can change the `message` if you want, but it's common practice to use the `default merge commit message`. So when your code editor opens with the `message`, just close it again and accept that `commit message`.

- QUIZ QUESTION: Let's say a repository has 4 `branches` in it:
  - master
  - allisons-mobile-footer-fix
  - nav-updates
  - jonathans-seo-changes
The changes on `master` and `allisons-mobile-footer-fix` need to be merged together. If `HEAD` points to `allisons-mobile-footer-fix`, which branch will move when the merge is performed?
  1. master
  2. allisons-mobile-footer-fix
  3. nav-updates
  4. jonathans-seo-changes
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 2
  Hint: Whichever branch the special HEAD pointer is pointing at, that's the branch that will have the merge commit.
  ```

## What If A Merge Fails?
- When a `merge` is performed and fails, that is called a `merge conflict`.

## Recap
- The `git merge` command is used to combine `branches` in `Git`:
```
git merge <other-branch>
```
- There are two types of `merges`:
  - `Fast-forward merge` – the `branch being merged in` must be ahead of the `checked out branch`. The `checked out branch`'s pointer will just be moved forward to point to the `same commit` as the `other branch`.
  - `Regular merge` 
    - two `divergent branches` are combined
    - a `merge commit` is created


## Further Research
- [Basic Merging](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging#Basic-Merging) from Git Book
- [git-merge](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge) from Git Docs
- [git merge](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-merge) from Atlassian blog