# 6. Merge Conflicts
## Sometimes Merges Fail
- Most of the time `Git` will be able to `merge branches` together without any problem. However, there are instances when a `merge` cannot be fully performed automatically. When a `merge` fails, it's called a `merge conflict`.
- If a `merge conflict` does occur, `Git` will try to combine as much as it can, but then it will leave `special markers` (e.g. >>> and <<<) that tell you where you needs to manually fix.

## What Causes A Merge Conflict
- `Git` tracks lines in files. A `merge conflict` will happen when the exact same line(s) are changed in separate branches.
  - For example, if you're on a `alternate-sidebar-style` branch and change the sidebar's heading to `About Me` but then on a different branch and change the sidebar's heading to `Information About Me`. You've changed the heading on both branches, so there's no way `Git` will know which one you actually want to keep. And it sure isn't going to just randomly pick for you!
- Remember that a `merge conflict` occurs when `Git` isn't sure which `line(s)` you want to use from the `branches` that are being merged. So we need to edit the same `line` on two different `branches`...and then try to `merge` them.

## Merge Conflict Output Explained
- When a `merge conflict` happens, the output that shows in the Terminal will show some error messages that look something like this
```
Auto-merging index.html
CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in index.html
Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.
```
- Notice that right after the `git merge` command, it tries merging the file that was changed on both `branches`, but that there was a `conflict`. Also, notice that it tells you what happened - `Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result`.
- The `git status` command will come in really handy when working with `merge conflicts`.

- QUIZ QUESTION: Try running `git status` when there's a merge conflict. Which of the following information does it show?
  1. You have unmerged paths.
  2. Unmerged paths
  3. fix conflicts and run "git commit"
  4. use "git add <file>..." to mark resolution
  ```
  Correct Answer: All options
  ```
- The `git status` output tells us to where the `merge conflict` has happened. So check out that file in your code editor!

## Merge Conflict Indicators Explanation
- The editor has the following `merge conflict indicators`:
  - `<<<<<<< HEAD` everything below this line (until the next indicator) shows you what's on the `current branch`
  - `||||||| merged common ancestors` everything below this line (until the next indicator) shows you what the `original lines` were
  - `=======` is the end of the `original lines`, everything that follows (until the next indicator) is what's on the `branch` that's being merged in
  - `>>>>>>> heading-update` is the ending indicator of what's on the `branch` that's being merged in (in this case, the `heading-update` branch)


## Resolving A Merge Conflict
- `Git` is using the `merge conflict indicators` to show you what `lines` caused the `merge conflict` on the two different `branches` as well as what the `original line` used to have. So to resolve a merge conflict, you need to:
  - Choose which `line(s)` to keep
  - Remove all `lines` with indicators

## Commit Merge Conflict
- Once you've removed all lines with `merge conflict indicators` and have selected what lines you want to keep, just save the file, add it to the `staging index`, and `commit` it! Just like with a `regular merge`, this will pop open your code editor for you to supply a `commit message`. Just like before, it's common to use the provided `merge commit message`, so after the editor opens, just close it to use the provided `commit message`.

- QUIZ QUESTION: You've made numerous `commits` so far in your exploration of `Git`. If a `merge conflict` occurs in a file and you edit the file, save it, stage it, and commit it but forget to remove the `merge conflict indicators`, will Git commit the file?
  1. Yes
  2. No
  ```
  Correct Answer: Option 1
  Hint: Git will commit the lines with the merge conflict indicators! They're just regular characters, so there's no reason Git will stop the commit because of them. It's up to you to actually remove them. Don't forget to use git diff to check what's going to be staged/committed!
  ```

## Recap
- A `merge conflict` happens when the `same line or lines` have been changed on `different branches` that are `being merged`. `Git` will pause mid-merge telling you that there is a conflict and will tell you in what file or files the conflict occurred. To resolve the conflict in a file:
  - Locate and remove all `lines` with `merge conflict indicators`
  - Determine what to keep
  - Save the file(s)
  - Stage the file(s)
  - Make a commit
Be careful that a file might have `merge conflicts` in multiple parts of the file, so make sure you check the entire file for `merge conflict indicators` - a quick search for `<<<` should help you locate all of them.

## Further Research
- [Basic Merge Conflicts](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Basic-Branching-and-Merging#Basic-Merge-Conflicts) from the Git book
- [How Conflicts Are Presented](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge#_how_conflicts_are_presented) from the Git docs